Introduce word count plugin (#2)
ckeditor/ckeditor5-word-count: docs/features/word-count.md

---
category: features
---

{@snippet features/build-word-count-source}

# Word count

The {@link module:wordcount/wordcount~WordCount} feature provides a possibility to track the number of words and characters written in the editor.

## Demo

{@snippet features/word-count}

```html
<div id="editor">
	<p>Hello world.</p>
</div>
<div id="word-count">
</div>
```

```js
ClassicEditor
	.create( document.querySelector( '#editor' ), {
		// Configuration details.
	} )
	.then( editor => {
		const wordCountPlugin = editor.plugins.get( 'WordCount' );
		const wordCountWrapper = document.getElementById( 'word-count' );

> 		wordCountWrapper.appendChild( wordCounterPlugin.wordCountContainer );

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		wordCountWrapper.appendChild( wordCountPlugin.wordCountContainer );
```

---
category: features
---

{@snippet features/build-word-count-source}

# Word count

The {@link module:wordcount/wordcount~WordCount} features provide a possibility to track the number of words and characters written in the editor.

## Demo

{@snippet features/word-count}

```html
<div id="editor">
	<p>Hello world.</p>
</div>
<div class="word-count">
</div>
```

```js
ClassicEditor
	.create( document.querySelector( '#editor' ), {

> 		// configuration details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		// Configuration details.
```

	} )
	.then( editor => {
		const wordCountPlugin = editor.plugins.get( 'WordCount' );
		const wordCountWrapper = document.querySelector( '.word-count' );

		wordCountWrapper.appendChild( wordCounterPlugin.getWordCountContainer() );
	} )
	.catch( err => {
		console.error( err.stack );
	} );
```

> ## Configuring options

Reviewer: If anything, it should be:

```suggestion
## Configuration options
```

Also, please check the structure of other feature guides. It's good to be consistent here.

```js
ClassicEditor
	.create( document.querySelector( '#editor' ), {
		// configuration details
	} )
	.then( editor => {
		const wordCountPlugin = editor.plugins.get( 'WordCount' );

		wordCountPlugin.on( 'update', ( evt, payload ) => {
			// payload is an object with "words" and "characters" field
			doSthWithNewWordsNumber( payload.words );
			doSthWithNewCharactersNumber( payload.characters );
		} );

	} )
	.catch( err => {
		console.error( err.stack );
	} );
```

## Installation

To add this feature to your rich-text editor, install the [`@ckeditor/ckeditor5-word-count`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@ckeditor/ckeditor5-word-count) package:

```bash
npm install --save @ckeditor/ckeditor5-word-count
```

And add it to your plugin list configuration:

```js
import WordCount from '@ckeditor/ckeditor5-word-count/src/wordcount';

ClassicEditor
	.create( document.querySelector( '#editor' ), {
		plugins: [ WordCount, ... ],
	} )
	.then( ... )
	.catch( ... );
```

<info-box info>
	Read more about {@link builds/guides/integration/installing-plugins installing plugins}.
</info-box>

## Common API

The {@link module:wordcount/wordcount~WordCount} plugin provides:

>   * {@link module:wordcount/wordcount~WordCount#getWordCountContainer} method. It returns a self-updating HTML Element which might be used to track the current amount of words and characters in the editor. There is a possibility to remove "Words" or "Characters" counter with proper configuration of {@link module:wordcount/wordcount~WordCountConfig#displayWords} and {@link module:wordcount/wordcount~WordCountConfig#displayCharacters},

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * {@link module:wordcount/wordcount~WordCount#getWordCountContainer} method. It returns a self-updating HTML element which is updated with the current number of words and characters in the editor. There is a possibility to remove "Words" or "Characters" counters with proper configuration of {@link module:wordcount/wordcount~WordCountConfig#displayWords} and {@link module:wordcount/wordcount~WordCountConfig#displayCharacters},
```

>   * {@link module:wordcount/wordcount~WordCount#event:update update event} which provides more versatile option to handle changes of words' and characters' number. There is a possibility to run own callback function with updated values.

Reviewer 2: I'd go with more general description: "which is fired whenever the plugins update the number of counted words and characters. Note this event is throttled...

Author: I rephrase it a little bite in a more generic manner.
